[MKC-1011] [UNO R4 WiFi] VRTC & Off Pin tutorial (#1139)
arduino/docs-content: content/hardware/02.hero/boards/uno-r4-wifi/tutorials/vrtc-off/vrtc-off.md

---
title: 'Arduino UNO R4 WiFi VRTC & OFF Pins'
description: 'Learn how to use the VRTC and OFF Pins on the UNO R4 WiFi.'
tags:
  - VRTC
author: 'Jacob Hylén'
---

The Arduino UNO R4 WiFi features 2 pins that have not been seen before on UNO boards, the VRTC pin and the OFF pin. 

> They are used to control some of the boards functions electrically. The VRTC pin can be used to keep the onboard RTC (Real Time Clock) running even when the boards main power supply is turned off, and the OFF pin is used to turn off the board by cutting off the power.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are used to control some of the boards electrical functions. The VRTC pin can be used to keep the onboard RTC (Real Time Clock) running even when the boards main power supply is turned off, and the OFF pin is used to turn off the board by cutting off the power.
```

Reviewer: Seemed weirdly worded, but if it is more technically correct then disregard this comment.

  
  RTCTime currenttime;
  RTC.getTime(currenttime);

  int hours = currenttime.getHour();
  int minutes = currenttime.getMinutes();

  Serial.print("Hours: ");
  Serial.println(hours);
  Serial.println("Minutes: ");
  Serial.println(minutes);

}

```

## OFF Pin
The OFF pin on the Arduino UNO R4 WiFi board lets you turn the boards onboard 5 V power supply off, basically turning off the board.

However, it will only turn off the board when it is powered through the VIN pin, or the barrel jack. Why is this? Because by using this pin, you are turning off the step down converter that generates 5 V from whatever voltage you are providing it with. If you are powering the board from USB, 5 V is provided from the USB cable, and there is no need for this step down converter to begin with. 

To use the OFF pin, all you need to do is to create a short circuit from it to a GND connection, like in the diagram below. To experiment, you can do this with a jumper cable, but for your finished projects you may want to incorporate a button or switch that will turn the board on or off in this way.

![OFF Pin Shorted to GND](./assets/OFF.png)

## Summary

> This short tutorial shows how to use the VRTC and OFF pins that are found on the new header on the Arduino UNO R4 WiFi, features that are brand new to the UNO family.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This short tutorial showed how to use the VRTC and OFF pins that are found on the new header on the Arduino UNO R4 WiFi. These features are brand new to the UNO family.
```
